So as Bill said,
I'm Ken McLeod and I work on
this thing called Keychain,
which we're going to go through today.
So hopefully we have some
exciting stuff to tell you about,
much more exciting than
what's going on next door.
We'll give you a quick overview
of what the keychain is,
and then we'll update you since we
talked to you last year about what's
been going on with the keychain.
will tell you about the Keychain
Manager APIs and answer your
questions about where they fit with
Carbon and where they are on OS X.
And then at the end, we'll tell you where
we're going with the APIs.
And finally, we'll have a demo,
of course, and Q&A.
Hopefully what you'll take away
from the session is a knowledge of
what the keychain provides for you
and especially what APIs will be
in Carbon so you can go out and add
keychain support to your applications.
So what is the keychain?
The keychain is a
repository that's secure.
An analogy I use is a bank vault.
The bank vault door closes and the
things that you put in there are secure.
The things that you put
in there are passwords,
cryptographic keys, digital certificates,
the bits of information that sort
of authenticate you or private
bits of data that unlock other
things or decrypt pieces of data.
The keychain is built on top
of this framework called CDSA,
which is the common data security
architecture that originated at Intel,
and that's an open group standard.
I believe they've announced plans
to open source their implementation.
The keychain has a really neat
feature in that it enables its
clients to provide something
called transparent authentication.
That's the ability to log in once and
then any servers and things that you have
passwords stored in your keychain for,
you'll just be able to connect
to them transparently through
clients that use the keychain.
The keychain is first introduced
and shipped with Mac OS 9 and it's
available there and going forward,
of course, on 10 and later.
So let's define some terms that are
important when talking about keychains.
Keychain is always in one of two states.
It's either locked or it's unlocked.
And when it's locked, you can't retrieve
data from the keychain.
You need to unlock it
in order to do that.
Every stored password
or key or certificate,
things that are in the keychain,
we call keychain items.
And we'll go into it in a little bit,
the things that all keychain
items have in common.
Then we have this notion
of the default keychain.
That's the one,
if you have multiple keychains,
that's the one where new items are added.
So a system can have
more than one keychain.
You can have some locked, some unlocked,
put some types of keys or server
passwords in one and copy one to a server
and use it over the network if you want.
Typically we see that there's
one keychain per user,
but certainly the ability to
have more than one is there.
Keychains can be set
to lock automatically,
so you don't have to go off, for example,
leave your desk and worry about whether
or not someone can come up and access
things that are in your keychain.
And the keychain is scriptable.
So everything that you can
access through the keychain API,
you can get out through Apple Script.
Keychain files can be moved around
from one machine to the other,
which makes them very useful.
You can take your keychain from work
to home and have it available there.
You can have it on the network.
At this point,
I have to tell you that keychains
will not be portable between 9 and 10.
Now, that was a decision that
we did not make lightly,
and part of the reason is that the
keychains on OS 9 use encryption
algorithm which is patented and
we're trying to move away from.
We're trying to get rid of any things
that would prevent us from open sourcing
this at some point in the future.
But when you go from 9-based
keychains to 10-based keychains,
we hope to provide some kind of
updater that will just convert
them so you can go easily.
But if that's going to be a problem,
please let us know about it.
Like I said,
keychain files can be on servers.
You can use them over the network
and you can use them on locked media.
So you can open a keychain read-only.
Most important for where
we're going in the future,
the CDSA architecture on which
the keychain is built allows
you to have keychains on smart
cards and removable tokens.
These things just appear as keychains
to clients of the keychain API.
And when there are modules to plug
into the underlying CDSA architecture
to support these types of things,
we actually have one working,
but as there are other
ones that are provided,
these things just show up and
you can use them in the keychain.
So,
lots actually happened since last year.
We're in OS 9 and not just shipping,
but we're actually an
integral part of it.
There are a lot of system components
that use the keychain and are tied to it.
If you used the Apple share client,
you'll know that it can store
passwords in the keychain.
And other components like network browser
and even airport and Apple file security,
AFS, all use the keychain
for password storage.
We shipped a security SDK which includes
the keychain and URL access and Macintosh
file signing and the CMS technology,
Cryptographic Message Syntax.
And all those things are available now.
Hopefully some of you have had a
chance to look at and use them,
play with it.
Copy that URL down because
a lot of good stuff there.
The keychain is now in DP4.
If you've had a chance to install that,
the APIs are in there.
is still kind of a development release,
still working on it,
and it requires you to link to the
security HI framework in order to
actually get at the Keychain API.
That won't stay the case.
We're very close to actually having
this fully in Carbon on both 9 and 10.
We just missed the DP4 train,
but you can still use DP4 again if
you link with security HI framework.
So this is a map of where the APIs are
and where you can call them from.
It's actually a pretty important slide.
On the left-hand side are legacy apps,
which are your pre-Carbon
Mac OS 9 applications.
And the APIs that are there are
those that we ship with Mac OS 9,
the keychain, URL access, iSign,
which is Macintosh file signing,
and the CMS APIs.
All those are still there in Classic.
And they're built on top of CDSA 1.2.
So those apps will just
work in Classic on OS X,
and they'll continue to work on Mac OS 9,
of course.
The middle box, Carbon applications,
sort of straddle this line
between Mac OS 9 and Mac OS X.
The APIs that are in Carbon will
be keychain and URL access.
So a Carbonized application that can run
on 9 or on 10 can make use of those APIs.
One thing that we did after Mac OS 9
when we sort of looked toward
the future and integrating with
OS X is how to factor the pieces,
the functionality that we had in the
Keychain API and make it available for,
you know,
not just Carbon applications but,
you know, BSD Unix applications,
Cocoa apps across the board.
And when we re-architected this,
we realized that a number of
things had to be separated out,
especially key and
certificate management.
will be talking about the things
that required keys and certificates.
Mac OS X apps as a category
are those applications that
will only run on Mac OS X.
That could include your Cocoa apps,
your BSD Unix apps,
and also Carbon applications that make
use of those APIs such as file signing.
And the piece there that
we're calling Security Core,
which includes keychain APIs and
some newer versions of those
APIs that you can use from lower
levels that don't require UI,
which I'll get into in a little bit.
Again, those applications,
10 applications and Carbon applications
that you're running on 10,
sit on top of the CDSA 2.0 API.
And that's a big step forward from 1.2 in
the amount of things that it lets us do.
It lets us have, for example,
something called access control lists
so that each individual item in your
keychain can be protected separately.
And you can allow certain
applications to access certain
items and not access other items.
And all those things are
sort of enabled by CDSA 2.0.
So you're an application,
you want to use the Keychain API,
what can you store in the Keychain?
There are three basic classes of
items that go into the Keychain:
keys, passwords, and certificates.
And each of those classes has
subclasses of items that we support.
The middle column there, passwords,
is what the Keychain API is primarily
focused on in this release and in Carbon.
Every keychain item has two components.
They have attributes and they have data.
The data, in this case, in this example,
is just a password.
But there are additional attributes
that sort of hang on to that password
and allow you to find it again.
In this example, for example,
I have my account name, Ken,
and a server and a path on that server.
These are all just bits of
data that you can attach to the
password and that help you find it.
So all these items that are in the
keychain have these common attributes,
the class of the item, the date created,
the date modified.
Every item has a label,
the thing that shows up when
you view it in keychain access.
It has a description and a comment,
which is all optional.
Within those subclasses, of course,
every item has additional
attributes that you can look at.
Internet password items, for example,
have a server name associated with them
and things like the protocol that's
used for that particular password.
attributes, as I said,
are used just to find the item.
The actual thing that you're
storing in the keychain and what
you're keeping secure is the data.
Now, the item data can't be searched.
You can't look for all items
that have a particular password,
because that wouldn't be too secure.
You can't get the data out
unless the keychain is unlocked.
And you can't retrieve the
data of an item without the
user's explicit permission.
Now, what that's meant in the past,
if you've had a chance to
play with a keychain on OS9,
is that every time you go to get
something out of the keychain,
a dialog pops up and asks you,
do you want to allow access to this item?
That's been a problem.
If for no other reason,
then users just get conditioned
to hit the Enter key every time.
So we're moving away from that dialog.
It would come up no more than once.
And we're going toward the ability to let
you preconfigure access for your items.
In particular, very important,
cryptographic keys, private keys,
and symmetric keys,
the data of those items can never
be retrieved from a keychain.
So how secure is the keychain?
Well, for one,
and I think this is pretty important,
it doesn't actually depend on
the machine's physical security.
It's stored in an encrypted format,
so you don't have to write down
your passwords or store them in a
preferences file or store them in a
sticky note somewhere on your disk.
The keychain file itself is encrypted.
And the password that unlocks
your keychain is never
stored anywhere on disk.
What we do is run it through
an algorithm called PBKDF2,
which is specified in
RSA's PKCS5 standard.
And what that does is it derives a key
every time from your keychain password.
A little bit about the
encryption that's used.
And again,
I said that we were trying to move away
from what we were using on Mac OS 9.
to something a little better on
OS X that did not prevent us from,
at some point in the future,
doing what Darwin has done.
The current plan is to use triple DES,
although I've talked to some
of you and some of you brought
this up in another session,
that there are perhaps other
algorithms that we can use.
So we were certainly looking forward to
any feedback that you have about that.
Now normally,
the keychain is unlocked with a password.
A dialog box comes up and it
asks you to unlock the keychain.
You type in the password and
then the keychain is unlocked
and items can be retrieved.
If you type the wrong password in,
every time you do that,
the delay grows between the amount
of--the time when that dialog can come
up again and new passwords are accepted.
So this sort of prevents
a systematic attack,
a sort of virtual user type thing
where it just types in the password
into the dialog over and over.
We allow programmatic unlock.
In OS 9, it was limited.
Essentially,
if you use the programmatic API to
unlock the keychain and you got
the password wrong the first time,
that was it.
You'd have to restart in
order to try that again.
And, but, you know,
effectively shut down that opportunity,
but it also prevented
a lot of people from
[Transcript missing]
Now, again,
data of the items can't be retrieved
without some sort of explicit
permission that the user has granted.
This permission can be
given on a per item basis,
a per process basis,
or an entire keychain, you can say.
Always allow everything in this keychain
to be accessed without bothering me.
Again, in OS 9,
we had a problem identifying processes.
It would be nice to say, "Okay,
always let my web browser
or my mail client access the
password and the keychain.
You know, don't bother me." The problem
was when that client quit,
something else could start up and say,
"Hey, I'm the mail client.
Give me the password."
And there was actually no
mechanism in 9 to prevent that.
So in 10, we can actually do a digest,
a cryptographic digest of the process,
store that, and...
will securely allow in a pre-configured
manner access to keychain items.
Now, cryptographic keys in your
keychain in 9 optionally required
a password in order to use them,
not just to unlock the
keychain itself to get at them,
but every time you went to use them.
The CDSA 2.0 API in Mac OS X is going
to allow us to provide that sort
of per item protection optionally
for every item in your keychain.
So what can you do with the keychain?
Well, if your application at any point
asks the user for a password
and needs to store it somewhere,
you can store that password in a
keychain instead of having to worry
about how you're going to encrypt it
or where you're going to store it.
And also,
you really want to allow the user the
opportunity to save off the password that
you've asked for so that in the future,
they can come back and they don't
have to type the password over
and over as they access whatever
it is that needs the password.
And you can also store
keys and certificates.
This is a piece of the functionality
that is moving out of the keychain
API in Carbon to that other box that
I showed in the previous slide that's
going to be a Mac OS X technology.
So let's go over the
APIs that are in Carbon.
There are high level calls,
which are very easy to get started with.
Those high level calls actually
have some underlying low level
routines to do bits and pieces of
functionality that you may need.
The API allows you to search for items.
That's its primary sort of
[Transcript missing]
So the first thing you need to do is call
this routine keychain manager available.
The reason for that is
that it may not be there.
If your application is a
Carbon application running on,
say, 8.1,
the keychain is not going back that far,
but your application can still
be running as a Carbon app.
So you need to test for it to
make sure that it's present.
You also don't need to explicitly
create a keychain to get started
with unless your application
needs to for some reason,
but the preferred way is to let
the user be in charge of that.
If you need to store
something in a keychain,
you can just store it and all of the sort
of housekeeping of setting up a keychain
will be taken care of for you by the API.
And then finally,
you'll just use a high level call
to find a password in the keychain.
So there are three basic
API routines to get a password.
Find Apple share password,
Internet password, and generic.
And all of these take a number of
attributes that you're looking for,
maybe a server name, an account name,
and will return the password to you.
And conversely, we have-- those actually
should say add instead of find.
But we have the similar routines
for adding a single password
to the default keychain.
So just mentally replace the
word find in each of those
with add and you have the idea.
So those high level calls are
actually made up of a number of
sort of individual factored pieces.
When you're calling add internet password
to put something into the keychain,
it's actually doing the work of all of
those items that you see there on the
right hand side to set up the item,
to associate it with a keychain,
to associate the
attributes you passed in,
and finally to update it and write
it out to the keychain storage.
So the new item call will
create a new keychain item.
And when you do that,
it's just in memory,
and it's not associated with
any particular keychain.
You want to add it to a keychain,
you'll call add item.
You'll always access items
through a KC item ref.
That's sort of the common denominator,
the format that all items,
whether they're keys, passwords,
or certificates, can be manipulated
You'll use get attribute to retrieve
a particular attribute from an item.
and set attribute to
change the attribute.
And the same thing with the data.
Get data will retrieve the data of
the item and set data will change it.
When you've changed an item,
whether you've added new attributes to
it or changed them or changed the data,
you'll want to call updateItem,
which actually commits the change
and writes it to the keychain.
And finally,
when you're done with an item,
you can release the memory that the
item occupies by calling kc.releaseItem.
If you need to find more than
one item in the keychain,
you can use find first
item and find next item.
Fairly straightforward.
They take a list of attributes,
things that you're searching for,
and they'll return a
search reference to you.
So you can continue to call find next
item as you need to to find items
that match your search criteria.
And then when you're all done,
you'll call release search.
Now, as I said before,
most of the time you want to allow the
user to create their own keychains.
But there are calls when you need
to create a keychain yourself.
And when you need to sort of
iterate through the keychains,
perhaps you're looking for
a particular keychain with a
particular set of attributes,
you'll access those through a KC ref.
A KC ref is an opaque structure.
Currently, everything on the system
is a keychain file,
but that's changing.
And it's very important not to assume
that a KC ref or a keychain is actually
an FS spec or a file on the system,
because it could be a smart card.
It could be any kind of device
that's pluggable into the
CDSA layer on the bottom.
We have a get status routine.
You'll probably actually use
that when you need to determine
whether a keychain is locked,
unlocked,
whether it has read-only access before
you try to store something in it,
for example, and other status flags.
Keychain name returns, like it says,
the name of the keychain.
You'll use count keychains to
figure out how many keychains are
available and get in the keychain,
which is get indexed keychain,
will return a particular keychain
out of that list given an index.
So this is an interesting
part of the API,
notification.
When anything happens in the keychain,
you can be notified and
take some sort of action.
Maybe you want to write a logging app
that logs all accesses to the keychain.
You can do it with this.
What you do is register a callback
procedure with KCAD callback.
You can give it a bit mask that
specifies the actual events that
you're interested in receiving.
You don't have to deal with all of these.
But we'll tell you when
a keychain unlocks,
when it locks, when something's added,
when someone does a search
and the item is found.
We'll certainly tell you when
someone retrieves an item.
That's the get data event.
We'll tell you when an item is deleted,
updated, and we'll tell you when the
default keychain has been changed.
When you're all done and you
don't want these events anymore,
you can call Casey Remove Callback
and then you won't get them.
So here's a real simplified example of a
routine that your application might call.
I have a connect to server routine
and the two parameters there are
the server that I'm connecting
to and who I want to connect as,
what my account name is.
So the first thing I do there,
actually the first thing I do would
be to call keychain manager available,
but that's just sort of assumed.
So I can call Casey find
internet password.
And the things that I'm interested in
when I want to look up this password
are of course the server name.
So I'll pass that in.
I don't actually care about
the security domain which is a
string so I'll leave that nil.
I could specify a
particular constant there.
I do want to look for a particular
account name that matches.
I really don't care about associating a
particular port so I'll pass any port.
This is an HTTP password so there's
a constant that I'll pass in that
says I only want an HTTP password.
Use the default auth type,
authentication type.
There may be different authentication
types that you can associate
with the same server and you can
distinguish them with that parameter.
Then I'll pass in a buffer
that I've pre-allocated and
the length of that buffer.
When the call returns,
assuming that a password was found,
that buffer will be filled out with
the password data and then actual
length will contain the length of that
So then if that all went
well and I found a password,
the return value status is going to
be no error and so I can just connect.
If it's not, I need to look at that,
do something else, ask the user for a
password with my own UI,
whatever I need to do there.
And then finally at the end,
I've got a password and I can connect.
I said that everything you can do
from a C API you can also do from
Apple Script with the keychain.
Here's a real simple example.
I have the first internet
key of the current keychain.
The whose clause at the end
there is doing all my searching.
So I can add attributes like
whose account is Ken and
whose server is ftp.apple.com.
I can string a list of those together to
sort of specify the item I'm looking for.
If the item is in the keychain,
it'll be returned in the item.
And then I can get particular
attributes from the item
such as password of the item.
And then this sample just
displays the password,
which is obviously not something
that you ever want to do.
So which keychain APIs are
actually in Carbon?
Well, the good news is the things that
were in Universal Interface's 3.3,
I believe we're up to
3.3.1 or 2.3 actually,
all of those calls with two
exceptions are part of Carbon.
So those will be there.
They'll be there in Carbon lib
and they'll be there in
Carbon framework on 10.
We had a keychain 1.0 API.
I know that some of you in
this room actually used it and,
you know, it's a little bit of
Unfortunately,
it didn't actually ship until
we were at Keychain 2.0.
But, you know,
we put in some code that actually
kept Keychain 1.0 working and
everything was supported on OS 9,
with some exceptions which
were noted at the time.
: Going forward into 10,
that will be removed.
There is a document in that security SDK
: I think the primary one is not
to use a keychain specification,
but you always want to use a KC ref,
which is that opaque reference.
And that allows things like smart cards
and other forms of keychain to work.
So we'll be in Carbon Lib 1.1 on OS 9.
I think that
We may actually be in there even as we
speak in the current D build of 1.1.
The next sort of build
cycle will get that in.
So it's imminently there.
And on OS X,
we will be on the Carbon framework.
In DP4, as I said before,
you need to currently link
against an additional framework,
Security HI.
But certainly by the time this
thing reaches public beta,
we will be fully integrated.
So what do you have to do
right now to use the keychain?
Well, there's a list here.
First of all, the current interfaces
define this weird symbol,
call in keychain but not in Carbon,
which is kind of a mouthful.
It's a workaround,
so if you define it to true,
you'll get all of the keychain calls.
The caveat there is that
as well as defining that,
you need to link to one of two libraries.
On 9, you need to link still with
keychain lib until that 1.1
build of Carbon lib is done.
And on 10, you need to link against
security HI framework.
So right now, today,
there's not the ability to have
a CFM binary that you can just
build on 9 and take over to 10 and
that will run using the keychain.
But certainly that will be
possible by public beta.
I should also point out that
DP4 does mean developer preview,
and it is a preview.
We are not done.
And one of the things we're not
done with is the encryption.
So you may,
you will definitely need to know that
encryption has been disabled in DP4.
So do not rely on keychains that
you create in DP4 to be secure.
Just a warning.
[Transcript missing]
Take those APIs that we had in
Keychain on OS 9 and move them into a,
factor them into a way that they
can be called from applications
that don't bring up UI.
That was sort of a problem that
we had with the current release.
You were forced in some cases to bring up
UI to unlock a keychain if the keychain
was locked in order to do anything.
If your app couldn't bring up UI,
then that was a problem.
Another problem was that there was no
way to add items to a specific keychain.
All items went to the default keychain,
whatever that happened to be.
So we needed to correct that.
Going forward on 10,
these APIs will be part of
security core and part of the,
The OS X frameworks,
they won't necessarily be in
Carbon as we move forward.
The APIs that we have there in
place now are certainly in Carbon.
But the new key and certificate
management based things
that will interoperate with
the keychain are OS X only.
So the first part of those new
API routines solve that problem
of what can happen or what needs
to happen if you can't bring up
any UI to unlock or authenticate.
And we had a routine,
and we still have a routine in
the SDK called set interaction
allowed which lets you turn on or
off any user interface coming up.
The problem of course is that if
you turn that off and the keychain
is locked then we just return an
error and that's not very useful.
So the new APIs will require
credentials to be provided.
And this is something that is, again,
supported by the underlying framework,
the CDSA framework that we're
built on top of in OS X.
So the APIs will let
you provide some sort of
credential which can
be either a password,
it can be a token, it can be as simple as
here's the process that I am,
did I have a digest
that was pre-approved.
There will be a callback where you
can provide that information that
the keychain needs without popping
up a dialogue when it needs it.
Ultimately,
we want to move towards certificates
as a way of authenticating that
items can be retrieved and sort of
verifying the identity of the process
that is trying to retrieve them.
Another problem that we had is how to
add an item to a particular keychain.
What you had to do previously is
to save off the default keychain
whenever you were going to add
something to your own keychain.
You'd have to set it as the default.
You'd have to put the item in and then
sort of swap it back to save the user's
or restore the user's default keychain.
That was pretty messy.
So the new APIs in OS X will have
an optional keychain parameter.
So I mentioned the keys and certificate
APIs that were part of Keychain in OS 9.
We really only had two API routines and
I'm not aware of anyone
that actually used them.
Please come up afterwards if you use
them and heavily depend on these.
But to factor out these and be able to,
as I said, look forward,
is the developer of the new CSA 2.0.
We've had to move the certificate
handling out of the keychain proper.
So these two routines will not
be there going forward in 10.
They'll still be available on 9 and
they'll still be available on Classic,
but we'd like you to get away
from using them and use the ones
that we'll have going forward.
The new routines will be provided
as part of that security core piece,
which is an OS X technology.
One big reason we want to do this
is to avoid dependence on Carbon.
So if you are, for example,
a BSD Unix app,
you don't want to depend on
Carbon and have all of this.
And I don't know in every case
whether it's even possible
to have that dependent.
So what this all means is that we're
not taking away keys and certificates.
They'll still be there and they'll
still be visible in your keychain.
They'll just be put in from
a different sort of vector.
You won't call add in the keychain.
You'll add from the security core
APIs and you'll even add from the
lower level CDSA APIs if you want
to go down that far and use those.
All of the CDSA headers are available.
They're on the Open Group's website,
which is opengroup.com/cdsa.
And you can find them on opengroup.org,
I believe.
I have a URL for them
later on in this talk.
But you can look at those, certainly.
And items in a keychain are
certainly accessible at that layer.
We are working on
higher level interfaces,
obviously, to sit on top of those,
which will -- or to be
available by public beta.
I'm sorry.
Those are actually the ones
that we're working on for the
release right after public beta.
So this is the part I've
been looking forward to,
and mostly because I know that
there's no way MaxBug can pop up.
So it's going to be good.
If we could have demo
one up on the screen,
I can actually go to that.
Okay, great.
So the first thing I'll do
is look at Keychain Access.
This is the new Keychain Access.
Maybe some of you have actually
already installed DP4 and
have had a chance to see this.
But it looks a lot like the
Keychain Access that's in OS 9,
except of course it's carbonized
and it has the Aqua look and feel.
So I can have columns that resize
and all those neat things that
you get with Aqua and Carbon.
When we shipped OS 9 we listened
to a lot of feedback on this and
there was a lot of user feedback.
And of course number one was why doesn't
my web browser support the keychain?
But number two was how do I get
something into the keychain?
And there was no clear way.
Yes, you could drag mounted
servers into the keychain,
you know,
and you could add passwords there.
But it wasn't real
apparent how you would,
you know, store something, for example,
you know, a credit card number or,
you know,
the password to your E-Trade account.
Or, you know,
these bits of data that people
have been writing down on their
palm pilots and on sticky notes.
It wasn't real clear how to get that in.
So we've added an add button.
And that just allows you to put in
your account name and a location.
Maybe this is the
password for my WWC demo.
And I'll type it in.
Add it.
And then I can get a
password in that way.
And it becomes a little more
useful for people to use.
Another feature that we've added
to keychain access is the ability
to manage your keychains a little
better than you could before.
So, for example,
you may have a list of two or three
keychains or you may have a dozen
keychains and maybe you don't want
all of them to be searched when
applications call find and applications
are looking for things in your keychain.
So you have the ability to turn on or
off whether these things are included in
the search and you'll have the ability to
reorder the search order from a dialog.
So these are things we're working on.
What I'd like to do now is run
the Carbonized version of Fetch,
thanks to Jim Matthews.
This is an FTP client for the
Mac that's been Carbonized.
And I have a shortcut here, actually,
that goes to a server
that I have an account on.
So when I double-click that, Fetch,
like most clients,
needs a password for this server because
it's a password-protected account.
So it pops up a password dialog.
But in this password dialog
is a checkbox that lets me,
as the user,
decide whether or not I want to
add my password to the keychain.
And that's actually very important.
You don't want to force
people to use the keychain.
You always want to give them the option.
I'll add that.
I'll log into my server.
And if I sort of go back
to keychain access here,
I see that it's added a password
for that server to the keychain.
So I can look at it,
see that it's in fact
an internet password,
see the URL, the account.
And this looks an awful
lot again like OS 9.
What's not there and what we
are working on is those access
control lists that I mentioned.
So given that item,
I want to be able to allow
[Transcript missing]
And of course,
the next time Fetch needs to access it,
I can just open it.
And it doesn't pop any password
dialog because he's called
find internet password and
it was there in the keychain,
so he was able to use it.
And I can close the connection
again and I can open it
again and still no password.
I can do that all day long.
But of course,
I can also remove this password
from the keychain if I don't
want it to be used anymore.
And then fetch can't use it because
it's not there and it has to ask again.
So that's just a basic
demo of Keychain in OS X.
And if we could have the slides back,
we can wrap up.
So just to wrap up,
the keychain is a repository.
It's like a bank vault, like a safe.
It's the place that you can
put your secure data in.
It's provided for you as a system
service so your application doesn't
have to do all the work associated
with making these things secure and
hopefully even for asking for the
data that you need to authenticate.
It's very easy to use.
You really only need two to three calls
to get your application using this.
And you can get started now.
You can get started with DP4.
The APIs are there.
Again, with the one note that you need to
link with security HI framework.
And certainly the security
SDK is out there for 9,
which you can also look at.
Unfortunately,
the problem with this slide is
that everything's already happened,
but you really, if you can,
want to take a look at
security directions.
That gives you more information.
And I'm not sure what media the session
will be available in afterwards,
but if you get a chance to look
at a recorded version of that,
it's very important to
see how CDSA 2.0 fits in.
Um.
For more information,
we have the SDK available on the website
and we have updated documentation.
So you should all look at the
PDF file that's up on the Carbon,
the TechBubz Carbon website.
And the documentation is also
available in HTML format on the DP4 CD.
So if you look in, I think,
system documentation, in that path,
you'll find all of the
keychain manager documentation.
If you're interested in sort of drilling
down and getting to the CDSA API layer,
CDSA is documented at
the Open Groups website.
You can go there for more info.
And if you're interested in developing
smart card plugins or the ability to
have these things show up as keychains,
that was talked about, of course,
in the security direction session.
But for more info, take a look at the
PCSC workgroup website.
So...